.NET Framework 4.6.2 Preview List of Changes
============================================

.NET Framework 4.6.2 Preview contains dozens of bug fixes and improvements. 
This list details those changes, grouped by feature area. 
Each change includes our TFS bug numbers at the end of the line. Please include those numbers in your communication if you wish to contact us to obtain more information.

CLR
---

* Added Custom attribute to opt out of NGen with method granularity [186172]
* Support .NET in packaged desktop apps. [191774]
* Fixed incorrect result generation while comparing 16-bit signed values. [187325]
* Fixed a JIT optimization bug [174983]
* Fixed crashes due to JIT32 inlining’s handling of struct [171773]
* Fixed issue with incomplete PDB information when invoking ildasm. [150267]
* Fixed a performance regression in debug start [164437]
* Fixed an issue in CLR type loader that causes type load failures in rare conditions. [185570]
* Fixed usability issues with error message received when System.BitConverter.ToString(Byte[] value, Int32 startIndex, Int32 length) is called [100012]
* Performance fixes in GC [162854]
* Fixed stress issues in GC [161104]
* Fixed crashes in EventListener.DisposeOnShutdown [156238]
* Implement EventCounter support [150674]
* Fixed System.Diagnostics.Tracing.EventSource does not serialize byte[] correctly [153224]
* Fixed RelatedActivityID is not set properly when using EventSource's ActivityTracker [154432]
* Fixed [EventSource] .WriteEvent handles null strings inconsistently depending on the overload getting called [95999]
* Added the event name to ThrowEventSourceException message [112066]
* Fixed typo in EventSource resource string [118799]
* Fixed unexpected exceptions thrown during OnEventSourceCreated [121699]
* In .NET 4.6 if two event names in EventSource differ by a suffix of Start or Stop, then the EventSource will fail to construct and never emit any logging. This is now fixed. [121820]
* Improve Diagnostic when using RelatedActivityID in EventSource [128437]
* User-defined subclasses named "EventSource" can be allowed by checking that the EventSource's type is not equal to typeof(EventSource) which is the type of the built in EventSource. [125529]
* When a byte array is written to an Event a spurious warning is generated by EventSource, claiming that the event has a mismatch in parameter count when it does not. [166228]

BCL
---
* Fix RunContinuationsAscynchronously flag for all continuation types. [146618]
* Fixed NullReference exception if  "sha1RSA" is passed to RSACryptoServiceProvider.SignHash(). [147247]
* Fixed “Unhandled Exception: System.Security.SecurityException: Unable to retrieve security descriptor for this frame.” in System.Security.Principal.WindowsIdentity.RunImpersonated() [149685]
* Removed the System.Numerics.Vectors façade from the targeting pack. If this façade is needed, add a reference to the System.Numerics.Vectors NuGet package. [120400]
* SignedXml now supports SHA256/384/512 signing. [125387]
* Added a new type called DSACng. [180229]
* Fixed Warnings generated during build that before required a global disable. [185846]
* Fixed potential threading issues with inconsistent values returned from the calls to AppContext. [181890]
* Framework support Unicode 8.0 for character categories. [176613]
* Improved interoperability with PFX files created with OpenSSL in GetECDsaPrivateKey. [171017]
* The ECDiffieHellman base class has been updated to provide better exposure for the hash, HMAC, and TLS-PRF key derivation methods, and the parameters they accept. [171018]
* Fixed System.Security.Cryptography.RSAPKCS1SignatureFormatter.ComputeSignature() and VerifySignature() failures with a NotSupportedException when an RSACng key is specified. [162556]
* Fixed message decryption issues in System.Security.Cryptography.Pkcs.EnvelopedCMS if the recipient certificate's private key is stored in a CNG key container. [163800]
* The factory method now returns SHA256Cng in FIPS-only mode. [163804]
* Fixed behavioral inconsistencies between .NET Core and .NET Framework 4.6 implementations of RSACng [164390]
* Update .NET to support packaged desktop applications. [191801]
* Fixed app crashes related to CompatSortNLSVersion handler initializations [191561]
* System.Security.Cryptography RSAOAEPKeyExchangeDeformatter, RSAOAEPKeyExchangeFormatter, RSAPKCS1KeyExchangeDeformatters and RSAPKCS1KeyExchangeFormatter no longer fail when used with a CNG key. [190217]
* Added support for AesCng and TripleDESCng. [187062]
* The DSA base class has been updated in the same manner as RSA in 4.6, and ECDsa in 4.6.1.  Accessing the public/private key of a DSA certificate can be done in a type-safe manner via cert.GetDSAPublicKey()/cert.GetDSAPrivateKey(), and signing and verification operations can be done without further casting. [167883]

ASP.NET
-------
* Fixed deadlock in AspNetSynchronizationContext [152944]
* Add support for sorting Model binding items by nested property names [173528]
* Fix Unhandled non-serializable exceptions in ASP.NET [160528]
* Fixed Non-interlocked update/read of 64-bit variable leads to wrong behavior. [92099]
* Since .NET 4.5 ASP.NET cache reports invalid size of the cache. This has been fixed. [154451]
* Fixed client side project compilation failure [156379]

WPF
---
* Nested Markup Expressions scenarios, where the parent markup extension is locally defined, have been fixed now. Developers can use markup extension within their custom defined markup extensions without causing a compiler error. [117193]
* Fixed potential periodic hangs or poor performance of a WPF application running on a device that has touch support.  This is mostly seen when running over a touch-enabled remote desktop or other touch enabled remote access solutions.  [146399]
* Enable automatic invocation and dismissal of the touch keyboard in WPF applications without disabling WPF stylus/touch support on Windows 10 [178044]
* Fixed missing glyph symbol display issues for those WPF applications that render text in the following ranges using a font that does not contain these ranges. [165725]
  Ranges: 
  Unicode = "0000-052F, 0590-06FF, 0750-077F, 08A0-08FF, 1D00-1FFF, 2C60-2C7F, A720-A7FF, FB00-FB0F, FB1D-FBFF"
  Unicode = "FC00-FDCF, FDF0-FDFF, FE20-FE2F, FE70-FEFE"
* Developers of WPF applications on .NET 4.6.1 may notice that the number of promotions from a touch move event to a mouse move event do not correspond 1:1.  This change ensures that there is a corresponding mouse move promotion for every applicable touch move. [169470]
* Enable WPF Applications to look and feel great in multi DPI environments. This means crisper text, sharper images and general polish. [191569]
* WPF applications that allocate large numbers of bitmaps over time can possibly see performance issues such as frequent pauses and large numbers of garbage collections.  This fix changes the bitmap garbage collection strategy to help alleviate these issues. [121913]
* Enables enumeration of generic and themed ResourceDictionary instances, and provides a notification infrastructure for listening to loading and unloading of ResourceDictionary instances. [159740]
* Starting .NET 4.6, CurrentCulture or CurrentUICulture changes made by event handlers (or any other method that WPF orchestrates the dispatch for) are lost when the method completes. This can result in various unintended side-effects ranging from the selection of incorrect UI language by application code, to potential loss of state information. This fix addresses the bug described above. [157919]
* Fixed compilation error in situations when a locally defined custom type in a XAML resource dictionary is immediately followed by something like x:Array. [131561]

WCF
---
* Added a new option for client to find best matching WCF service endpoint using NetNamePipeBinding.[157498]
* CryptoConfig.CreateName(string algorithm) is now updated to understand SHA256 algorithms. [195341]
* Fixed a reliability issue in DataContractCriticalHelper which throws as a SerializationException when reading objects concurrently. [146940]

Workflow
--------
* Workflow designer now supports “prepared for update” dynamic update XAML [98185]

Windows Forms
-------------
* Fixed a crash in Windows Forms designer related to switching windows themes [172691]
* "Smart Tag" dialog processes "enter" key press properly and is same as in Visual Studio 2013 [174771]
* Enabled shortcut keys in the preferences dialog in mageui.exe tool [184655]
* A Windows Forms application that is using print preview dialog when printing to a network printer with certain non-default preferences set, can now opt in into a performance optimization that would considerably speed up the preview generation. [159091]
* Fixed a hang in Windows Forms app when Control.Invoke is called but the caller thread terminates before the invoke finishes [149183]
* Added an Application compatibility switch that fixes implementation of MemberDescriptor.Equals  function so that it compares the corresponding fields, instead of comparing description field to category field. [149471]
* Fixed potential race condition in System.Windows.Forms.Application.ThreadContext  [146065]
* Fixed a control in MageUI tool that is not accessible by a keyboard shortcut because the same shortcut letter is used for two controls [146678]
* Fixed a memory leak in Control.DrawToBitmap method. [188396]
* Fixed control text truncations issue in “Items Collection Editor” dialog in Visual Studio. [187716]
* Fixed a crash in Windows Forms Designer in Visual Studio related to adjusting TableLayoutPanel control. [190415]
* Fixed a crash in Windows Forms Designer in Visual Studio [190416]

ClickOnce
---------
* Added support for TLS1.1/1.2 in ClickOnce runtime. [193676]
* Fixed string truncations issue on ClickOnce security dialog. [176656]




